% Student name: Yinuo Zhao
% Student number: 1007672494
% UTORid: zhaoy239

% This code is provided solely for the personal and private use of students
% taking the CSC485H/2501H course at the University of Toronto. Copying for
% purposes other than this use is expressly prohibited. All forms of
% distribution of this code, including but not limited to public repositories on
% GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or any other online platform, whether as given or
% with any changes, are expressly prohibited.

% Authors: Ken Shi, Jingcheng Niu and Gerald Penn

% All of the files in this directory and all subdirectories are:
% Copyright (c) 2024 University of Toronto

2(a)
sentence(28) 2 readings
exists x.(student(x) ^ forall y.(course(y) => take(x, y)))
forall y.(course(y) => exists x.(student(x) ^ take(x, y)))
sentence(30) 1 reading
exists x.(student(x) ^ forall y.(course(y) => take(x, y)))

2(e)
I tested GPT4 on interpreting the meaning of sentence (27), (28), (29), (30).
The prompt that I used is "can you list the interpretation  of [sentence], report all interpretations if there are more than one."
Note that for the Chinese sentence, I use the Chinese characters as input rather than pinyin.

Below are the results:

(27) Every student takes a course. 
    My grammar outputs two parsing as the sentence is ambiguous.
    GPT 4 produces the same two interpretaion with the following explaination:
	    1.	Universal Quantification Over Existential (All Students, At Least One Course Each)
	    2.	Existential Quantification Over Universal (Every Student Takes Some Course, Possibly Different)

(28) A student takes every course.
    My grammar outputs two parsing as the sentence is ambiguous.
    GPT4 is only able to capture one of the interpretation: 
        1. Esistantial over universal: there exists at least one student who is enrolled in every course offered.

(29) mei ge xuesheng dou huishang yi zhong kecheng.
    My grammar outputs two parsing as the sentence is ambiguous.
    GPT4 is only to capture of the the interpretation:
        1. Universal Quantification Over Existential (All Students, At Least One Course Each)

(30) yi ge xuesheng huishang mei zhong kecheng.
    My grammar outputs only one parsing as the sentence is unambiguous.
    GPT4 captures the one meaning same as it does for (28), which is correct.
        However, it does this by first translating to English, then interpret the English sentence rather than extract meaning of the Chinese sentence directly.

In summary, GPT4 does a good job when the sentence has universal quantifier that comes before the existantial quantifier. 
I believe that is relates to the potential imbalance in the training data which impacts performance. "Every student takes 
a course" is how we usually speek, and both meanings are commonly used. But "A student takes every course" means "there
exists a student that takes every course" most of the time. The other meaning is uaually expressed in alternative ways
such as "In every course, there is a student" or more simplpy "there is no empty course". This may have influenced GPT's
performance.

In addition, I used the Chinese text in the prompt, which is less familiar for GPT compare to English, due to how it is
trained. Therefore, GPt will perform translation first then interpret the meaning. For simple sentences it may work just
fine. But for more complex sentence or long paragraphs that involves contexts(quantifiers) that span multiple sentences or
sub-sentences, it's performance can be potentially worse sence the translation itself may be inaccurate. Then interpreting 
the inaccurate translation will lead to more error.